---
title: 单词本
date: 2021-12-16 08:00:00
---

Freebase was a large collaborative knowledge base consisting of data composed mainly by its community members.

This model is uncased: it does not make a difference between english and English.

Clarke was a science fiction writer, an avid populariser of space travel, and a futurist of a distinguished ability.

This API is designed to supersede accessing the clipboard using document.execCommand().

On certain systems 0 is a valid PID but we have no way to know that in a portable fashion.

to mark code as being "privileged", thus affecting subsequent access determinations.

the quality that allows someone to continue doing something or trying to do something even though it is difficult or opposed by other people.

His persistence in asking for a raise was finally rewarded.

Fluency on the command line is a skill often neglected or considered arcane, but it improves your flexibility and productivity as an engineer in both obvious and subtle ways. 

Some tips are elementary, and some are fairly specific, sophisticated, or obscure.

The goals are breadth (everything important), specificity (give concrete examples of the most common case), and brevity (avoid things that aren't essential or digressions you can easily look up elsewhere). 

First of all, the schema-based processing mechanism used by the standard library is commendable, in which the parser can obtain meta information in advance when scanning, thereby shortening the time of branch selection. 

These caveats aside, we believe that Go 1 will be a firm foundation for the development of Go and its ecosystem.
